# Classification of Double Lap joints
Acoustic Emission (AE) is a non-destructive testing technique to detect damages within a specimen without causing any damage to the material. The signals detected by AE testing can be clustered by unsupervised and supervised methods. The purpose of this paper is to investigate how accurate common unsupervised and supervised clustering methods are in the characterisation of damage mechanisms of an adhesively-bonded bi-material double-lap joint joint using AE techniques. The joint consists of a steel core and CFRP skins which are adhered by a thick adhesive. The AE data were collected by conducting a shear strength test on the joint specimen, the component materials, and the interfaces by tensile loading respectively. The AE data of the component materials and interfaces were then clustered using unsupervised hierarchical clustering method and inputted as a training set to identify different types of damage using supervised decision tree method. Furthermore, images were taken during the shear strength test to aid the analysis of the damage behaviour of the specimen. The results show that the dominant damage mechanism came from the damages in the steel core using AE signals. It was also found that the classification method used in this paper has an accuracy of 98.1\%. However, the images show that adhesive failure and debonding failures at the interface were the dominant damage mechanisms. In conclusion, hierarchical clustering and decision tree as common clustering methods cannot be used as a useful tool to detect and characterise different damage mechanisms of a double-lap joint accurately.
